(data-sources)=
# Data sources used in the Atlas

The Atlas builds on several key observational and model simulated datasets made publicly available by different institutions and modeling centers, in some cases resulting from international collaborations such as {cite:authorpar}`CMIP` and {cite:authorpar}`cordex`. It also includes some datasets used in different chapters of AR6 WGI report. We acknowledge all institutions and modeling centers for making the data publicly available. 

## Observations

The observational datasets used in the Atlas are described in Table Atlas.SM.15. This repository contains information derived from the {cite:authorpar}`WFDE5` (WFDE5 over land merged with ERA5 over the ocean).

## Climate Change projections (CMIP6, CMIP5 and CORDEX)
An inventory of the data sources of the model simulations used for the different experiments and scenarios is included here, indicating the availability of the different variables as well as auxiliary fixed fields, such as the land/sea mask (sftlf). The following documents provide a full overview of the simulations available: 

 * {download}`CMIP5_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx<./CMIP5_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx>`
 * {download}`CMIP6_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx<./CMIP6_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx>`
 * {download}`CORDEX_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx<./CORDEX_simulations_ATLAS.xlsx>`

Full metadata is organized as machine-readable tables in the different CMIP5, CMIP6 and CORDEX folders. This includes the ESGF version used for each model and variable so the data is fully traceable. CMIP6 includes different temporal frequencies (day/mon) and realms (atmos, land, ocean, seaIce). The data consolidated here is a subset of the data available at ESGF for the relevant experiments used.
README files in the different folders provide handle and/or ESGF search links pointing to the specific datasets used.

{cite:authorpar}`ATLASDatasets` contains a searchable table with the DOIs for all datasets that provide them. Dataset DOIs provide provenance information at the dataset level. This table feeds from the {cite:authorpar}`MetaclipccDatasetTable` in {cite:authorpar}`metaclip`.

> Note:
> 
> This folder traces the exact version of the datasets used in the Atlas. Newer versions of these data may exist in the future for different reasons. Users should visit the ES-DOC Dataset Errata website {cite:authorpar}`ESDOCErrataSearch` to check the availability of newer versions or data retractions in the datasets stored in this repository.


Broadly speaking, throughout this repository the term CMIP6 has been used mostly in reference to  the Scenario Model Intercomparison (ScenarioMIP). However, please note that other CMIP6-Endorsed MIPs are also included here, namely CORDEX (Coordinated Regional Climate Downscaling Experiment) and PMIP (Palaeoclimate Modelling Intercomparison Project).
{cite:authorpar}`GMDRequirementsGlobal`

## Paleoclimate simulations

The paleoclimate simulations used in the Interactive Atlas were generated by Dr Chris Brierley using model simulated data from PMIP3 (CMIP5) and PMIP4 (CMIP6) experiments. The data and code are available in the {cite:authorpar}`IPCCWG1PMIPAR6` WGI GitHub repository.  

## Sea Level Rise projections (AR6 WGI Chapter 9)

The sea level rise information used in the Interactive Atlas was obtained directly from Chapter 9.

## Short-lived climate forcers (AR6 WGI Chapter 5)

Information on surface Ozone, Particulate Matter (PM2.5), and Effective Radiative Forcing (ERF, due to aerosols) included in the Ineractive Atlas was obtained directly from Chapter 5.

## Socio-economic data (population and Anthropogenic CO2 emissions)
The Interactive Atlas also includes relevant socioeconomic data to provide context information on the SSPs used in the CMIP6 climate projections. This includes population data and CMIP6 forcing used by the modeling communit (anthropogenic CO2 emissions). This data is not included in this repository.

### Population gridded data (0.5°)
Historical annual gridded population data for the period 1861-2005 is based on the HYDE3.2 database {cite:authorpar}`ESSDAnthropogenicLand`. Source: *ISIMIP2b*{cite:authorpar}`InputDataSet`. Annual gridded population data for the period 2006-2100 and for the different SSPs (1-5) is based on the population projections described in {cite}`jonesSpatiallyExplicitGlobal2016`. Source: *ISIMIP2b* annual values linearly interpolated from the original decadal population data.

### Anthropogenic CO2 emissions

#### References
```{bibliography}
:filter: docname in docnames
```
<script src="https://utteranc.es/client.js"
        repo="PhantomAurelia/Atlas"
        issue-term="pathname"
        theme="preferred-color-scheme"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>